---
date: 2020-12-26T11:29:11-04:00
description: "Tactics and measurements for effective customer relationship management through email"
tags: [ "customer-relationship-management" ]
title: "Email Marketing"
---

# Email marketing

**Email marketing** is a common component of most [CRM](customer-relationship-management.md) programs.

Some of the most common tactics of email marketing include:

* **Lead nurturing**: Send targeted messages to prospects at different stages of the buying cycle to move them closer to a sale.
* **Sales follow-up**: Follow-up with leads and new customers by sending personalized messages to  help build relationships and keep them engaged.
* **Customer service**: Provide customer support by responding to customer inquiries and resolving issues via email.
* **Promotions and marketing**: Send newsletters, product updates, and other marketing messages to keep customers informed and engaged.
* **Surveys and feedback**: Gather customer feedback with surveys and other feedback requests to gather insights that can be used to improve products and services.

## How to measure email marketing success

The most common metrics used to measure email marketing effectiveness are:

* **Send Rate or Bounce Rate**: The percentage of emails that were sent successfully or unsuccessfully (emails sent unsuccessfully are said to have "bounced"). This helps evaluate the overall quality of the email list the campaign is targeting.
* **Open Rate**: The percentage of recipients who open an email. This helps gauge the effectiveness of subject lines and the overall interest of subscribers.
* **Click-Through Rate (CTR)**: The percentage of recipients who click on at least one link within an email. This indicates the effectiveness of your call-to-action (CTA) and content.
* **Conversion Rate**: The percentage of recipients who complete the desired action after clicking a link in the email, such as making a purchase, requesting more information, or signing up for an event.
* **Unsubscribe Rate**: The percentage of recipients who opt-out of future emails. This can help identify any issues with content relevancy or frequency.
* **List Growth Rate**: The net increase in subscribers during the campaign, accounting for new sign-ups, unsubscribes, and bounces. This indicates the overall health of your email list.
* **Return on Investment (ROI)**: The revenue generated by the campaign compared to the total cost of running the campaign. This helps evaluate the overall success and profitability of the campaign.

<!-- 
Engagement Over Time: Track the performance metrics of each email in the series to identify any patterns, such as diminishing open rates or CTRs. This can help inform future optimization efforts.

Time to Conversion: The average time it takes for a recipient to complete the desired action after receiving the first email in the series. This can help inform the pacing and frequency of your multi-step campaign. -->
